despite the length of this video studio
lighting in blender is actually pretty
simple to do so first we want to set up
our camera and basic angle and
everything so add in a camera
and i want my uh camera to be pretty
front on so in front view mode if i hit
control alt as number pad 0 it's going
to snap the view directly to this view
now the focal length of this camera can
play a pretty big role in how things are
perceived if you go for a low focal
length it kind of looks like that
wide lens like you know skateboard
videos and that emphasizes the depth of
an object and then if you go
the other direction and go too far
forward it can kind of flatten the depth
so that's kind of the difference so i
want to go somewhere in between it
50 is sort of the neutral one but i find
for something like furniture it does
kind of make things closer to it a
little too emphasized so i'm going to go
100 like that 100 millimeters and then
uh front on is pretty boring so let's
just rotate our chair
uh
so just hitting r and then z
ah
zed and uh rotate it side on like that
about 20 degrees
all right and then i want the camera up
so that i can just see like the top of
the seat here
and uh if i was to rotate the camera and
you know do it down like this that
that's okay but it can also create kind
of like a bit of a bat not bad is it
barrel distortion it's like perspective
distortion uh but there's a little trick
i learned you can use shift y and x
uh which will actually create like if
you rendered like a large image and then
just cropped it to that little bit it's
that effect i'll put a if you click the
little i
up there you can watch a video that i i
found on it that's pretty good but
anyways for that that's pretty good nice
okay so
let's talk about uh
lighting so if we went into rendered
view mode we would see this
which is not very thrilling
why can't i oh there we go
so it does have some light and that is
because the world has a default gray
color to it so i actually want to turn
that off to set the strength to zero so
that all my lighting is going to come
from lights in the scene so let's add in
our first lamp so shift a go light point
lamp like so
okay so this lamp if we were to uh put
it you know front onto the camera it
would show us the chair but it wouldn't
reveal its form because it's hiding the
shadow the shadow is obviously being
cast behind which we can't see so
equally as important to light is its
shadow and i'll say that again shadow is
equally as important to light so don't
fear shadow it's a common beginner
mistake so uh we want to position our
light so that it is creating some form
of shadow on it um and you can see that
with the light round about here we've
got shadow on this side so it's showing
that the object's three dimensional like
a box but there's no shadow across this
curve here so it's not easy for us to
see that this is a curved backing so
this is where the light placement
is very important so let's just split my
view here so that i can go into top view
now if i was to move my light a little
bit to the side
you can see we're starting to get some
shadow there now let me now that we're
doing this i increase the light
brightness
okay something like that so i want there
to be just a little bit of shadow coming
off the uh the curve there so that i can
see
see the form of that back there
and if i wanted to light up the seat a
little bit more then i could increase
that and you can also see that that
changes the position of the reflection
as well so reflection for some objects
is more important than the actual lights
itself because like if you're lighting
uh
what's something like a let's say like a
knight in shining armor that's fully
chrome or whatever um you wouldn't
actually see like light wouldn't matter
it would be purely reflection so that
that's an example of where reflections
are really important so anyways in this
case uh the reflection i don't want it
to be like down here because it can make
the lip of this look too emphasized so i
want it to be up a little bit and it's
also creating some shadow across ah it's
lighting the top of my chair there so
that is desirable that's what i want
lovely okay now
before we go adding any more lights in
because you know you can see that the
right side of this is dark um but we
want our chair to be sitting on
something right to look like it's in a
studio environment and that can actually
contribute to the light because it'll
bounce off it so might as well add in a
floor while we can i mean
sooner rather than later anyway so i'm
just adding in a plane here and that's
good we've got shadow we've even got
some bounce coming off the plane there
which is nice um however i want that uh
i want it to look like there's an
infinite background right
uh not this jutting line there because
that can you know if you can imagine
like that can disrupt the the look of
this object here so it's very common a
lot of photographers shoot on an
infinite background when i was first
starting uh with blender i thought like
the the solution to this was to like
you know make this plane absolutely huge
and then add a sun lamp to light it all
up and that was completely the wrong way
to go about it it's so much simpler than
that all you need to do is just select
one edge of your plane
uh extrude that up so e and then z
like so
and that's pretty good however there's
still the line there so all we need to
do is add a bevel so
bevel modifier bevel
and you can see we get this now if we
increase the segments here watch what
happens to that line
it just disappears and that's pretty
good but then if we right click and go
shade smooth it's virtually vanished and
if you can still see it you can also
just play with this offset and like
increase that
and that can play a big role
the other thing as well is you'll notice
that the light isn't even across this
right so there is more light hitting
this section than there is hitting this
section so there is a big fall off
between those two points there
and this is called the inverse for in
inverse square law so i talked about
this in my full lighting series which
you can watch by clicking up there um
that goes into all about the science of
lighting and all that stuff but this
just the basics of it
every time distance doubles so for
example the distance between this light
here
and uh this chair and then let's say an
equal point over here uh the the falloff
is four times from here to there which
is crazy but it is true so essentially
it means that uh small amounts of
distance uh can actually have really
large fall-off depending on how far away
the light is from the source so given
how close this is to the light there
we're getting a lot of falloff so the
solution is either to
bring this in really really close but
you're still getting some fall-off
happening
or and this is the solution i'm going to
do is just move the light source further
away and now when i do this obviously i
need to increase the brightness but the
falloff will be less because there is
less of a distance falloff between now
from like uh there to there it's not
like that far away right so the further
away i make this and then increase this
uh the more even the light in the
backdrop is going to be and let me turn
off or let's just erase those
annotations there we go so you can see
that that light is now completely even
going across here
and that is good i'll just also
uh raise that up so that i'm still
getting some light across
across the bow the bow of the seats i
don't know i'll just call it that uh and
that's pretty good that's not bad
so as i mentioned we are getting some
bounce lighting coming off of this plane
here before it was like totally dark
there because
just like in space there's nothing for
light to reflect off of so you actually
get a completely black it's completely
black on the dark side of the moon
there's nothing to reflect off it so
therefore it is completely black with
something there we can see it's a
totally different effect by the way
check it out i've got a
viewport denoising this new feature in
blender 2.83 beta
there it is optics ai
viewport denoising and it is so cool i'm
really happy i think other software's
had it for like a couple of years but
blender just got it it only works with
rtx cards just uh fyi but
i didn't think it was going to make that
big of a difference but i'm really i i
love it so now i'm i'm going to use it
for everything
so when we're playing with the the
energy value of a light we're basically
making the decision of like is this lit
enough is it overly lit like if you go
too high you can go like oh yeah that
looks a little bit too bright versus
going a little bit too low and it looks
a little bit too dark but there is a
tool in blender that helps you see this
better and that's underneath color
management you can see by default the
view transform is filmic which is what
you should always use definitely don't
change
for a final render off that
but you can choose false color and this
will actually show you kind of like a
heat map of the exposure ranges of the
image so gray
which is usually like a a slither right
like that little gray value there that's
something that's properly exposed at
kind of like zero ev
um and then if you go into the slightly
cyan color or aqua color that's like one
stop under and then a hot green color is
one stop over and then obviously like
yellow and then red is even more and
more overexposed and you can actually
see this when you change
the exposure range there so essentially
the way i look at it is as long as there
is a gray value somewhere on my model i
know that i'm in the range where it is
where it's acceptable the other thing
while we're talking about color
management is uh generally blender tends
to look a little bit washed out um and
uh the reason for that is that the look
that it applies to it by default is kind
of like medium contrast so the look here
it says none but it's actually identical
to medium contrast if you change that to
high contrast you'll see that it almost
immediately improves it
so whenever i'm doing anything basically
i always change my look to high contrast
and uh it improves it immensely like
it's just there's never really a case
where i don't want to use high contrast
uh very high kind of just like it
punches out it yeah it's the shadows
become darker the highlights become
brighter very high is a little bit too
extreme i just generally find high looks
pretty good um but there you go and then
you can play with exposure if you've you
know as opposed to changing the power of
the light it's the exact same thing
except it's from the camera's point of
view so every light source would have an
effect of that but anyways that's pretty
good that's that's not bad it's kind of
got that
like bleached like
uh stock studio light kind of look i
might turn that back a little bit
something i might want to do as well is
that this side of this chair here is
kind of it's in the shadows which is
good you don't want to erase shadows
completely but you do want
in some cases to reveal something about
it so maybe i've got like some grain of
the wood there that i want to highlight
so
i'm going to add another point lamp
right here
point and this is just going to light up
just the side of this chair here so you
never want to just add in light you
always want that to be a purpose so make
sure you get into the habit of like why
am i adding a light like there has to be
a reason for it and then you want to
isolate that light so i hide any other
lights with uh h and then this light
here i can see is yeah it's the only
light from this little point so now
i'm just going to play with this light
and i just wanted to hit the side of
that leg there i don't want it to hit
this backdrop here because that could uh
i could ruin all that perfect uh that
perfect flat lighting that i went to all
the trouble of getting so if i move this
behind the backdrop you can see that i'm
really controlling
and over here now it's really just
hitting the side of this leg there so
that's kind of ideal for what i want and
if i change the
size
of this lamp it's going to change how
soft that shadow looks so that's
something else
i didn't show you but yeah the size of
the uh the shadow is very important as
well so let me just get this right that
looks pretty good now let's bring back
our other light
you can also a common trick is to make
one light source
a different color like you could make it
blue
and that's it's okay but it can kind of
start to look a little bit urban you
know like if you go like sort of like
hot pinks or anything you know that look
it's kind of like like if this was an
outdoor furniture perhaps
like a park bench or something that
might be what you want but it tends to
things look a little bit funky it can be
done creatively yes but
i've got a whole video on lighting color
if you want to delve into that but
generally if you stick to white um or at
least if you're gonna go into color like
keep it to warm or cool those are the
natural tones according to the black
body temperature
uh but anyways i might just go slightly
cool like that just to make it a little
bit interesting but not in your face uh
so quickly the the size of the shadow
right so if you look at
uh the shadow coming off this leg here
the size of this lamp source here is
being decided by or it's being shown by
the size of this circle around it so as
i change the size here it's changing
that and that is you can imagine it like
it's a ball of light and if you were to
put a mirror there you would see that
blender renders that as if it is a solid
ball of light so the larger you make
this just like when you've got an
overcast sky when it's like lighting up
a whole cloud um the shadows become
softer and softer right
and that can be desirable for some
things like generally
the female form like you don't want to
emphasize things that might make you
look old like wrinkles or saggy things
or something like that if you wanted to
make a model look younger you would want
to go for soft lighting whereas if it
was like a masculine
male model perhaps you want to get like
some jaw lines or something you would
use a uh
a sharper light source so generally the
larger the light source the softer the
form kind of hide the detail whereas the
sharper the light source the more the
detail is emphasized so um
in my case i don't want to go for
something like a you know like a sun
lamp i don't want it to look like as as
sharp as that i don't want it also to be
like soft like overcast but sort of
somewhere in between it um i don't know
if that's a little bit too exaggerated i
mean it there's also no right and wrong
answer like the trends of like product
uh
product design you can see i was just
verifying before i talked about the
inverse square law
uh it is it is a full-time reduction but
the trends of studio lighting um it
changes all the time so uh yeah you can
go like sometimes people are doing like
these sort of sunny photography um
they're putting them with like natural
materials like concrete and marble
it just changes with the times you know
the trends of photography like maybe in
the old days having like an infinite
background was like oh that's crazy cool
but now everyone knows how to do it so
they're shaking it up with different
things um
but anyway play around with it see what
you like something that is quite trendy
is to uh change the color of the
backdrop to be kind of like
uh i don't know like the kanye west uh
yeezy pastel kind of this type of color
or to like go like tutti frutti so
basically like something desaturated but
like a random color uh tends to be
yeah it tends to look a little trendy it
looks a little bit more interesting than
an infinite white background so that's
something i will do let's make it a
little bit
slightly
saturated like that
and that's pretty cool i don't know what
this says to the viewer maybe that it's
like childish or playful or it's bold
and it's cool and aren't you cool for
buying the cool chair
um i don't know something like that like
it's all it's sort of like getting into
advertising that's kind of cool i like
that like a pastel
that's kind of nice so i'll go with that
so let's do the render okay so
um let's go
200 samples we'll see how that goes
something i do want to use is denoising
so in your render passes i'm going to
turn on of course
in my render passes you'll have to do it
at your end
denoising data
which we'll use in just a second so hit
render on that with f12 and there is our
render rendered in nine seconds yours
might be a little bit longer since i
have two rtx titans
i know it's like the first time in my
life where i have like a computer which
is like
top speed i used to be just like a
teenager and i'd like save up like 50
bucks for like a card that was five
years old and now nvidia's giving me two
of the best cards and i'm i'm very happy
anyways so denoiser uh it's underneath
filter denoise so you add this in then
you go noisy data
normal and then albedo i wish there was
just a checkbox that just built it into
the render but for now it's like a
separate node which is a little bit
annoying but now that cleans up the
render right so this was
this was what it looked like before with
a little bit of noise there and then
when you put this through it uh it just
cleans it up magically
which is which is great that's what we
want okay now something else as well is
that
uh
so often times you have so much bounce
lighting going on that there isn't as
much shadow in the corners of objects as
there should be so for example like
maybe right in here or up here it can be
a little bit brighter than it should be
in real life so something to counter
that is ambient occlusion so if you go
into your world properties you'll see
there is a tab here called ambient
occlusion but i don't want you to check
the box because if you do that it'll
build it in and it'll like brighten
stuff up as well you want to leave it
unchecked but the distance there is
important distance is like how much how
far should it look for an object which
is close in order to create extra shadow
10 meters is insane i have no idea why
that's that of why that is the default
value unless you were making like a city
block scene and you needed the different
buildings to bounce like ah it's crazy
high i'm going to go for 20 centimeters
or 0.2 meters and then rather than
checking the box if you go to your
render passes and then enable
ambient occlusion
uh you need to give it another render
and there we go it shouldn't have
increased the render time at all really
although it has by half a second or
whatever it doesn't matter um if we uh
preview what this is by control shift
left clicking until it shows ao you can
see that this oh hang on alt v
no
alt
v
zoom in there it's uh that's what it's
doing it's just adding an extra shadow
where there might logically be some so
even like the top like underside of this
chair it's adding a little bit of shadow
on the top of
the top of that slat there so now to
combine
a uh
almost purely white map but with slight
amounts of darkness to it you go into
yeah before your denoise pass because i
guess there would be samples in there
and if we add in a color
mix node drop this in here
so make sure a noisy image is going into
the top input the bottom input we want
to be the ambient occlusion and then if
we look at this you'll see that it's
just going to show us the ambient
occlusion but if we set this to multiply
it's only going to use the dark values
and it's going to ignore the white
values so this is it with nothing
right so that if we well actually that
that is a really big difference so this
is with nothing this is where it turned
up to maximum
so it adds like a lot of extra shadow in
there so generally i just sort of choose
a value which feels nice so somewhere
around about like a .4
can look kind of nice somewhere 30 40
percent um it just adds a little oomph
especially like around the corners of
the uh the chair leg there it can help
it feel a little bit more grounded than
it did previously it kind of feels like
it's just sitting in
on space a little bit whereas if you add
a little bit of this oomph it just a
little bit of shadow just helps it feel
grounded
it's not as important as it used to be
before
you know unbiased rendering and global
illumination bounced lighting off
everything but it is still a little bit
important
uh and finally because a lot of people
were asking how i did the turntable
animation it's so easy that i can throw
it in here without ballooning the length
of this tutorial
right where my seat is right there place
my cursor there and then i'm going to go
shift a add in an empty and this is
going to be the pivot point for my
camera so i take my camera and then i
parent it to this empty control p
keep transform and now you can see that
as i rotate this empty my camera is
rotating around it like it is
on a circle like a circle we used to i
don't know why i did it years ago but
like whenever i used to do this i made
like a busier circle and then i added a
transform to look at it and it was like
a lot of work and now i realize like why
did i do all that you can just add an
empty and then rotate the empty
so anyways then if you uh i've hidden my
timeline but we'll bring it back
timeline
uh let's go 100 frames
home and then go to the first frame and
if we add a keyframe here rotation and
then if we go to the last frame
um actually i want my animation to end
there so let's do the inverse of that
well let's add a keyframe there and then
go to the first frame
and then let's make the camera over here
so r and then z to rotate my empty
around it to where i want it to start
and then i'll go i rotation and now if
you play it back you should see that it
pans around but you can see it like
eases into it because it's using
bezier it's like
ramping up speeding up and then slowing
down so rather than that if you just
right click with these keyframes uh
selected and then just go uh
interpolation mode linear
now you shouldn't see any uh any fall
off any bezier effect it should be like
a constant
something like that and then we'll just
do a render animate the whole thing so
there you go our final uh animation
didn't take too long and uh looks pretty
nice for a minimal amount of work as a
final outro i wasn't going to include
this in the tutorial but you know might
be something that some people want i
have an add-on called prolighting studio
which basically does this you select the
object that you want to light and then
there's a bunch of pre-made lighting
setups designed off of like professional
photographers
uh general aesthetics and you can just
like quickly cycle through them so it
just kind of adds in the light like for
you and does it really quickly
um because you often don't know what
lighting setup will look good until you
see it so yeah we basically created this
as a way to yeah basically trial out
a bunch of different lighting setups
without having to go to all the work of
adding in the lights yourself it also
adds in like the floor for you you can
add like a texture to it it's designed
to be like super fast and
you know does a does a bunch of
interesting stuff so if you're
interested in that i'll put the link in
the description um and you can check it
out but otherwise hope you enjoyed this
a little quick tutorial on making studio
lighting setups thank you for watching
uh give it a thumbs up if you found it
useful and i hope to see you in a future
video and if you follow the entire chair
sobog uh tutorial series well done
because that's the finale the true
finale uh you made it right to the end
so our congrats on doing that and yeah
well done
that's all i got to say
see you later